[DOC] Manual argument parser (#758)
seqan/seqan3: doc/tutorial/argument_parser/index.md

\note As the name suggest, positional options are identified by their position. In SeqAn3, the first `add_positional_option()` will be linked to the first command line argument that is neither an option and its value nor a flag. So the order of initializing your parser determines the order of assigning command line arguments to the respective variables.
We personally recommend to always use regular options (id-value pairs) because they are more expressive and it is easier to spot errors.

You can add an option like this:

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp add_option

Additionally to the variable that will store the value and the description, you need to specify a short and long identifier. The example above will recognize an option `-i` or `--int` given on the command line and expect it to be followed by a value separated only by e.g. `=` or a space (see [this post](https://www.math.uni-hamburg.de/doc/java/tutorial/essential/attributes/_posix.html) for details).

Finally, you can add a flag with the following call:

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp add_flag

> Note that you can omit either the short or long identifier by passing `'\0'` and `""` respectively but never both at the same time.

Reviewer: I don't get it, but the `'\0'` and `""` is rendered incorrectly.

## Default values

> With the current design, every option/flag/positional automatically has a **default value** which simply is the value with whom you initialize the corresponding variable that is passed as the first parameter. Yes it is that easy, just make sure to always initialize your variables properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the current design, every option/flag/positional automatically has a **default value** which simply is the value with which you initialise the corresponding variable that is passed as the first parameter. Yes it is that easy, just make sure to always initialise your variables properly.
```

\assignment{Assignment 3}

> Getting back to our example application lets extend our code from Assignment 2 by the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Getting back to our example application, let's extend our code from Assignment 2 by the following:
```

> As a *best practice* recommendation if you handle multiple options/flags/positionals, you should store those in a struct and pass this struct to your parser initialization function. You can use the following code that introduces an `cmd_arguments` struct storing all relevant command line arguments. Furthermore it provides you with a small function `run_program()` that reads in the data file and aggregates the data by the given information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a *best practice* recommendation for handling multiple options/flags/positionals: You should store those in a struct and pass this struct to your parser initialisation function. You can use the following code that introduces a `cmd_arguments` struct storing all relevant command line arguments. Furthermore, it provides you with a small function `run_program()` that reads in the data file and aggregates the data by the given information.
```

\htmlonly <details> <summary>Copy and paste this code into the beginning of your application: </summary>  \endhtmlonly
\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/solution3.cpp program
\htmlonly </details> \endhtmlonly

> Your task is now to extend the initialization function by the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your task is now to extend the initialisation function by the following:
```

> 1. Extend your `initialize_argument_parser` function by a parameter that takes a `cmd_arguments` object and adapt the function call in your main function to pass on `args`;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Extend your `initialise_argument_parser` function by a parameter that takes a `cmd_arguments` object and adapt the function call in your main function to pass on `args`;
```

2. Set the default value of `aggregate_by` to `"mean"`.

> You can now use the variables from `args` to add the following inside of the `initialize_argument_parser` function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now use the variables from `args` to add the following inside of the `initialise_argument_parser` function:
```

> 2. Add a positional option to the parser that fills the variable `file_path` so our program knows the location of the data file to read in.

Reviewer: 2 again?

Maybe also `set` instead of `fill` ?

3. Add an option `-y/--year` that fills the variable `year` which will enable our program to filter the data by only including a season if it got released after the value `year`.
4. Add an option `-a/--aggregate-by` that fills the variable `aggregate_by` which will enable our program choose between aggregating by mean or median.

> 5. Add a flag `-H/--header-is-set` that fills the variable `notation`  which let the program know if it should ignore the first line in the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add a flag `-H/--header-is-set` that fills the variable `notation` which let the program know if it should ignore the first line in the file.
```

```console
./game_of_parsing -H -y 2014 data.tsv
7.9175
```

```console
./game_of_parsing -H -y 2010 --aggregate-by median data.tsv
6.84
```
\endassignment
\solution
\include doc/tutorial/argument_parser/solution3.cpp
\endsolution

# List options

In some use cases you may want to allow the user to specify an option multiple times and store the values in a list. With the seqan3::argument_parser this behaviour can be achieved simply by choosing your input variable to be of a container type (e.g. std::vector). The parser registers the container type through the seqan3::container_concept and will adapt the parsing of command line arguments accordingly.

Example:

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp option_list

Adding this option to a parser will allow you to call the program like this:

```console
./some_program -n Jon -n Arya -n Ned
```

The vector `list_variable` will then contain all three names `["Jon", "Arya", "Ned"]`.

## Positional list options?

> An arbitrary positional option cannot be a list because of the ambiguity of which value belongs to which positional option. We do allow the very last option to be a list though for convenience. Note that if you try to add a positional list option which is not the last positional option, a seqan3::parser_design_error will be thrown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An arbitrary positional option cannot be a list because of the ambiguity of which value belongs to which positional option. We do allow the very last option to be a list for convenience though. Note that if you try to add a positional list option which is not the last positional option, a seqan3::parser_design_error will be thrown.
```

Example:

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp positional_option_list

Adding these positional option to a parser will allow you to call the program like this:

```console
./some_program Stark Jon Arya Ned
```

The first `variable` will be filled with the value `Stark` while the vector `list_variable` will then contain all three names `["Jon", "Arya", "Ned"]`.

\assignment{Assignment 4}

Again, we extend the solution from assignment 3:

> 1. Remove the option `-y/year`, since we want to keep it simple and only aggregate by season now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove the option `-y/--year`, since we want to keep it simple and only aggregate by season now.
```

2. Add a variable `seasons` of type `std::vector<uint8_t>` to the struct `cmd_arguments`.

> 3. Add a list option `-s/--season` that will fill the variable `seasons`, which let's the user specify which seasons to aggregate instead of the year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add a list option `-s/--season` that will fill the variable `seasons` which lets the user specify which seasons to aggregate instead of the year.
```

4. [BONUS] If you have some spare time, try to adjust the program code to aggregate by season. Hint: Use std::find.
\htmlonly <details> <summary>If not replace the while loop with the following: </summary>  \endhtmlonly
\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/solution4.cpp altered_while
\htmlonly </details> \endhtmlonly

> Take a look at the help page again after you've done all of the above. You will notice that your option `-s/--season` even tells you that it is of type `List of UNSIGNED (8 bit)'s`. Check if your options are set correctly by trying the following few calls:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take a look at the help page again after you've done all of the above. You will notice that your option `-s/--season` even tells you that it is of type `List of unsigned 8 bit integer's`. Check if your options are set correctly by trying the following few calls:
```
Soon

4.97
```
\endassignment
\solution
\include doc/tutorial/argument_parser/solution4.cpp
\endsolution

# Setting options as required, advance or hidden.

## Required options

There is a flaw in the example application we have programmed in assignment 4, did you notice? You can make it misbehave if not giving it any option `-s` (which is technically correct for the seqan3::argument_parser because a list may be empty). You could of course handle this in the program itself by checking whether the vector `seasons` is empty, but since supplying no season is not expected of the user we can force him to do so by **declaring an option as required**.

For this purpose we the seqan3::option_spec enum interface that is accepted as an additional argument by all of the `add_[positional_option/option/flag]` calls:

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp required_option

If you do **not** supply the option via the command line, you will get the following error:

```console
./example_program --some-other-option
Option -n/--name is required but not set.
```

\note Positional options are always required!

## Advanced and hidden options

> Additionally to REQUIRED flag, there is also the possibility of **declaring an option as advanced or hidden**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally to the REQUIRED flag, there is also the possibility of **declaring an option as advanced or hidden**.
```

\attention You can pass a validator to the *add_option* only after passing the seqan3::option_spec parameter. Pass the seqan3::option_spec::DEFAULT tag if there are no further restrictions on your option.

## SeqAn3 validators

The following validators are provided in the SeqAn3 library and can be included with the following header:

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp validator_include

\note All the validators below work on single values or a container of values. In case the variable is a container, the validator is called **on each of the values** separately.

### The seqan3::arithmetic_range_validator

On construction, this validator receives a maximum and a minimum number.
The validator throws a seqan3::parser_invalid_argument exception whenever a given value does not lie inside the given min/max range.

\snippet test/snippet/argument_parser/validators_1.cpp validator_call

Our application has a another flaw that you might have noticed by now: If you supply a season that is not in the data file the program will again misbehave. Instead of fixing the program, let's restrict the user input accordingly.

\assignment{Assignment 6}

> Add a seqan3::arithmetic_range_validator to the `-s/--season` option that set's the range to `[1,7]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a seqan3::arithmetic_range_validator to the `-s/--season` option that sets the range to `[1,7]`.
```

\endassignment
\solution
\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/solution6.cpp arithmetic_range_validator
\endsolution

### The seqan3::value_list_validator

On construction, the validator receives a list (vector) of valid values.
The validator throws a seqan3::parser_invalid_argument exception whenever a given value is not in the given list.

\snippet test/snippet/argument_parser/validators_2.cpp validator_call

\assignment{Assignment 7}

> Add a seqan3::value_list_validator to the `-a/--aggregate-by` option that set's the list of valid values to `["median", "mean"]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a seqan3::value_list_validator to the `-a/--aggregate-by` option that sets the list of valid values to `["median", "mean"]`.
```

\endassignment
\solution
\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/solution6.cpp value_list_validator
\endsolution

### The seqan3::file_ext_validator

On construction, the validator receives a list (vector) of valid file extensions.
The validator throws a seqan3::parser_invalid_argument exception whenever a given filename (string) is not in the given extension list.

\snippet test/snippet/argument_parser/validators_3.cpp validator_call

### The seqan3::file_existance_validator

The validator throws a seqan3::parser_invalid_argument exception whenever a given filename (string) does not exist.

\snippet test/snippet/argument_parser/validators_file_existance.cpp validator_call

\assignment{Assignment 8}
Add a seqan3::file_existance_validator to the first positional option that expects the `file_path`.
\endassignment
\solution
\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp file_existence_validator
\endsolution

### The seqan3::regex_validator

On construction, the validator receives a pattern for a regular expression.
The pattern variable will be used for constructing an std::regex and the validator will call std::regex_match on the command line argument.

> Note: A regex_match will only return true if the strings matches the pattern completely (in contrast to regex_search which also matches substrings). The struct than acts as a functor, that throws a seqan3::parser_invalid_argument exception whenever a given filename (string) is not in the given extension list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: A regex_match will only return true if the strings matches the pattern completely (in contrast to regex_search which also matches substrings). The struct than acts as a functor that throws a seqan3::parser_invalid_argument exception whenever a given filename (string) is not in the given extension list.
```

\snippet test/snippet/argument_parser/validators_4.cpp validator_call

## Chaining validators

You can also chain validators using the pipe operator (`|`). The pipe operator is the AND operation for two validators, which means that a value must pass both validators in order to be accepted by the new validator.

> For example you may want a file name that only accepts absolute paths but also must have one out of some given file extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you may want a file name that only accepts absolute paths but also must have one out of some given file extensions.
```

For this purpose you can chain a seqan3::regex_validator to a seqan3::file_ext_validator:

\snippet test/snippet/argument_parser/validators_chaining.cpp validator_call

You can chain as many validators as you want which will be evaluated one after the other from left to right (first to last).

\assignment{Assignment 9}
Add a seqan3::file_ext_validator to the first positional option that expects the `file_path` by chaining it to the already present seqan3::file_existance_validator. The file extensions of our application should be restricted to `tsv` since we expect tab separated files.
\endassignment
\solution
\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/solution6.cpp file_existence_validator
\endsolution

## Create your custom validator

> If our validators to not suit your needs, you can always create your own validator. In order to be accepted by the seqan3::argument_parser, your validator mus satisfy the following requirements (see also seqan3::validator_concept):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If our validators to not suit your needs, you can always create your own validator. In order to be accepted by the seqan3::argument_parser, your validator must satisfy the following requirements (see also seqan3::validator_concept):
```

| **positional option**  | identify an argument by position (*value*)     | `file1.txt`             |

Have a look at the [POSIX conventions](https://www.math.uni-hamburg.de/doc/java/tutorial/essential/attributes/_posix.html) for command line arguments if you want a detailed description on the requirements for the above. (Note: in the linked article the following holds: value="argument", option="option", flag = "option that does not require arguments", positional option ="non-option").

## A continuous example
We will get to know the wide functionality of the argument parser by writing a little application and extending it step by step.  Let's say we have a tab separated file `data.tsv` with information on the Game of Thrones Seasons ([by wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Game_of_Thrones_episodes)):

\include doc/tutorial/argument_parser/data.tsv

We want to build an application that is able to read the file with or without a header line, select certain seasons and compute the average or meadian from the "Avg. U.S. viewers (millions)" of the selected seasons.

# The SeqAn3 argument parser class

> Before we add any of the options, flags and positional options we will take a look at the seqan3::argument_parser class itself. It is constructed by giving a name and passing the parameters `argc` and `argv` from main. Note that no command line arguments have been parsed so far but we can now add more information to the parser.  After adding all desired information, the parsing is triggered by calling the **`parse()`** member function. Since it will throw in case any errors occur, we need to wrap it into a try-catch block. Here is a first working example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we add any of the options, flags and positional options we will take a look at the seqan3::argument_parser class itself. It is constructed by giving a name and passing the parameters `argc` and `argv` from main. Note that no command line arguments have been parsed so far but we can now add more information to the parser. After adding all desired information, the parsing is triggered by calling the **`parse()`** member function. Since it will throw in case any errors occur, we need to wrap it into a try-catch block. Here is a first working example:
```

Reviewer: `[...] parser.__After [...]` to `[...] parser._After [...]` (double whitespace)

- **short_copyright** (seqan3::argument_parser_meta_data::short_copyright)
- **short_description** (seqan3::argument_parser_meta_data::short_description)
- **synopsis** (seqan3::argument_parser_meta_data::synopsis)
- **url** (seqan3::argument_parser_meta_data::url)
- **version** (seqan3::argument_parser_meta_data::version)

\assignment{Assignment 2}

1. Extend the minimal example from assignment 1 by a function
   `void initialize_argument_parser(seqan3::argument_parser & parser)`.
2. Within this function, customise the parser with the following information:
   * Set the author to your favourite Game of Thrones character (Don't have one? Really? Take "Cersei").
   * Set the short description to "Aggregate average US. Game of Thrones viewers by season.".
   * Set the version to 1.0.0 .
   * Set some more if you want to.
   Hint: Check out the API documentation for seqan3::argument_parser_meta_data and seqan3::argument_parser::info.
3. Try calling `--help` again and see the results.

\endassignment
\solution

\include doc/tutorial/argument_parser/solution1.cpp

\endsolution

# Adding options, flags and positional_options

> Now that we're done meta information, we will learn how to add the actual functionality of options, flags and positional options. For each of these three there is a respective member function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we've done meta information, we will learn how to add the actual functionality of options, flags and positional options. For each of these three there is a respective member function:
```

> Now that we're done meta information, we will learn how to add the actual functionality of options, flags and positional options. For each of these three there is a respective member function:

Author: ```suggestion
Now that we're done with the meta information, we will learn how to add the actual functionality of options, flags and positional options. For each of these three there is a respective member function:
```

* seqan3::argument_parser::add_option
* seqan3::argument_parser::add_flag
* seqan3::argument_parser::add_positional_option

> All of the functions above take as the first parameter a variable by reference, which will directly store the corresponding parsed value from the command line. This has two advantages compared to other command line parsers: (1) There is no need for a getter function after parsing and (2) The type is automatically deduced (e.g. with boost::program_options you would need to access `parser["file_path"].as<std::filesystem::path>()` afterwards).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of the functions above takes a variable by reference as the first parameter, which will directly store the corresponding parsed value from the command line. This has two advantages compared to other command line parsers: (1) There is no need for a getter function after parsing and (2) The type is automatically deduced (e.g. with boost::program_options you would need to access `parser["file_path"].as<std::filesystem::path>()` afterwards).
```

> The seqan3::argument_parser::add_flag only allows boolean variables while seqan3::argument_parser::add_option and seqan3::argument_parser::add_positional_option allow **any type that is convertible from a std::string via std::from_chars** or a container of the former (see \ref tutorial_argument_parser_list_options). Besides accepting generic types, the parser will **automatically check if the given command line argument can be converted into the desired type**, and if not throw a seqan3::type_conversion_failed exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The seqan3::argument_parser::add_flag only allows boolean variables while seqan3::argument_parser::add_option and seqan3::argument_parser::add_positional_option allow **any type that is convertible from a std::string via std::from_chars** or a container of the former (see \ref tutorial_argument_parser_list_options). Besides accepting generic types, the parser will **automatically check if the given command line argument can be converted into the desired type** and if not throw a seqan3::type_conversion_failed exception.
```

So how does this look like? The following code snippet adds a positional option to `parser`.

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp add_positional_option

Additionally to the variable that will store the value, you need to pass a description. This description will help users of your application to understand how the option is affecting your program.

\note As the name suggest, positional options are identified by their position. In SeqAn3, the first `add_positional_option()` will be linked to the first command line argument that is neither an option-value pair nor a flag. So the order of initialising your parser determines the order of assigning command line arguments to the respective variables.
We personally recommend to always use regular options (id-value pairs) because they are more expressive and it is easier to spot errors.

You can add an option like this:

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp add_option

> Additionally to the variable that will store the value and the description, you need to specify a short and long identifier. The example above will recognize an option `-n` or `--my-number` given on the command line and expect it to be followed by a value separated only by e.g. `=` or a space (see [this post](https://www.math.uni-hamburg.de/doc/java/tutorial/essential/attributes/_posix.html) for details).

Reviewer: e.g. `=` or a space? are there more? the link doesn't seem to say something about it...

> Additionally to the variable that will store the value and the description, you need to specify a short and long identifier. The example above will recognize an option `-n` or `--my-number` given on the command line and expect it to be followed by a value separated only by e.g. `=` or a space (see [this post](https://www.math.uni-hamburg.de/doc/java/tutorial/essential/attributes/_posix.html) for details).

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally to the variable that will store the value and the description, you need to specify a short and long identifier. The example above will recognize an option `-n` or `--my-number` given on the command line and expect it to be followed by a value separated only by `=` or space or by nothing at all.
```

Finally, you can add a flag with the following call:

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp add_flag

> Note that you can omit either the short by passing <code>'\0'</code> or the long identifier by passing `""` but you can never omit both at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that you can omit either the short identifier by passing <code>'\0'</code> or the long identifier by passing `""` but you can never omit both at the same time.
```

Example:

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp option_list

Adding this option to a parser will allow you to call the program like this:

```console
./some_program -n Jon -n Arya -n Ned
```

The vector `list_variable` will then contain all three names `["Jon", "Arya", "Ned"]`.

## Positional list options?

An arbitrary positional option cannot be a list because of the ambiguity of which value belongs to which positional option. We do allow the very last option to be a list for convenience though. Note that if you try to add a positional list option which is not the last positional option, a seqan3::parser_design_error will be thrown.

Example:

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp positional_option_list

Adding these positional option to a parser will allow you to call the program like this:

```console
./some_program Stark Jon Arya Ned
```

> The first `variable` will be filled with the value `Stark` while the vector `list_variable` will then contain all three names `["Jon", "Arya", "Ned"]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first `variable` will be filled with the value `Stark` while the vector `list_variable` will then contain the three names `["Jon", "Arya", "Ned"]`.
```

\assignment{Assignment 4}

Again, we extend the solution from assignment 3:

1. Remove the option `-y/--year`, since we want to keep it simple and only aggregate by season now.

2. Add a variable `seasons` of type `std::vector<uint8_t>` to the struct `cmd_arguments`.

3. Add a list option `-s/--season` that will fill the variable `seasons` which lets the user specify which seasons to aggregate instead of the year.

4. [BONUS] If you have some spare time, try to adjust the program code to aggregate by season. Hint: Use std::find.

> \htmlonly <details> <summary>If not replace the while loop with the following: </summary>  \endhtmlonly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\htmlonly <details> <summary>If you do not have time, replace the while loop with the following: </summary>  \endhtmlonly
```

Set an option/flag to hidden, if you want to completely hide it from the user. It will never appear on the help page nor any export format. For example, this can be useful for debugging reasons.

\assignment{Assignment 5}

Extend the solution from assignment 4 by declaring the `-s/--season` option as required.

Check if your options are set correctly by trying the following call:

```console
./game_of_parsing -H --aggregate-by median data.tsv
[Winter has come] Option -s/--season is required but not set.
```
\endassignment
\solution
\include doc/tutorial/argument_parser/solution5.cpp
\endsolution

# Validation of (positional) option values

Our applications often do not allow just any value to be passed as input arguments and if we do not check for them the program may run into undefined behaviour. The best way to carefully restrict user input is to directly check the input when parsing the command line. The seqan3::argument_parser provides **validators** for a given (positional) option.

> A *validator* is a [functor](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/356950/what-are-c-functors-and-their-uses) that is called within the argument parser after retrieving and converting a command line argument. We provide several validators which we hope cover most of the use cases but you can always create your own validator (see section todo).

Reviewer: Replace section todo

\attention You can pass a validator to the *add_option* only after passing the seqan3::option_spec parameter. Pass the seqan3::option_spec::DEFAULT tag if there are no further restrictions on your option.

## SeqAn3 validators

The following validators are provided in the SeqAn3 library and can be included with the following header:

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp validator_include

\note All the validators below work on single values or a container of values. In case the variable is a container, the validator is called **on each of the values** separately.

### The seqan3::arithmetic_range_validator

On construction, this validator receives a maximum and a minimum number.
The validator throws a seqan3::parser_invalid_argument exception whenever a given value does not lie inside the given min/max range.

\snippet test/snippet/argument_parser/validators_1.cpp validator_call

> Our application has a another flaw that you might have noticed by now: If you supply a season that is not in the data file the program will again misbehave. Instead of fixing the program, let's restrict the user input accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our application has a another flaw that you might have noticed by now: If you supply a season that is not in the data file, the program will again misbehave. Instead of fixing the program, let's restrict the user input accordingly.
```

\endassignment
\solution
\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/solution6.cpp value_list_validator
\endsolution

### The seqan3::file_ext_validator

On construction, the validator receives a list (vector) of valid file extensions.
The validator throws a seqan3::parser_invalid_argument exception whenever a given filename (string) is not in the given extension list.

\snippet test/snippet/argument_parser/validators_3.cpp validator_call

### The seqan3::file_existance_validator

The validator throws a seqan3::parser_invalid_argument exception whenever a given filename (string) does not exist.

\snippet test/snippet/argument_parser/validators_file_existance.cpp validator_call

\assignment{Assignment 8}
Add a seqan3::file_existance_validator to the first positional option that expects the `file_path`.
\endassignment
\solution
\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp file_existence_validator
\endsolution

### The seqan3::regex_validator

On construction, the validator receives a pattern for a regular expression.
The pattern variable will be used for constructing an std::regex and the validator will call std::regex_match on the command line argument.

> Note: A regex_match will only return true if the strings matches the pattern completely (in contrast to regex_search which also matches substrings). The struct than acts as a functor that throws a seqan3::parser_invalid_argument exception whenever a given filename (string) is not in the given extension list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: A regex_match will only return true if the string matches the pattern completely (in contrast to regex_search which also matches substrings). The struct then acts as a functor that throws a seqan3::parser_invalid_argument exception whenever a given filename (string) is not in the given extension list.
```

\snippet test/snippet/argument_parser/validators_4.cpp validator_call

## Chaining validators

You can also chain validators using the pipe operator (`|`). The pipe operator is the AND operation for two validators, which means that a value must pass both validators in order to be accepted by the new validator.

For example, you may want a file name that only accepts absolute paths but also must have one out of some given file extensions.
For this purpose you can chain a seqan3::regex_validator to a seqan3::file_ext_validator:

\snippet test/snippet/argument_parser/validators_chaining.cpp validator_call

You can chain as many validators as you want which will be evaluated one after the other from left to right (first to last).

\assignment{Assignment 9}
Add a seqan3::file_ext_validator to the first positional option that expects the `file_path` by chaining it to the already present seqan3::file_existance_validator. The file extensions of our application should be restricted to `tsv` since we expect tab separated files.
\endassignment
\solution
\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/solution6.cpp file_existence_validator
\endsolution

## Create your custom validator

> If our validators to not suit your needs, you can always create your own validator. In order to be accepted by the seqan3::argument_parser, your validator must satisfy the following requirements (see also seqan3::validator_concept):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If our validators do not suit your needs, you can always create your own validator. In order to be accepted by the seqan3::argument_parser, your validator must satisfy the following requirements (see also seqan3::validator_concept):
```

> 1. It needs to expose a `value_type` type member which identifies the type of variables the validator works on. Currently, the seqan3 validators either have value_type `double` or `std::string`. Since the validator works on every type that has a common reference type to `value_type`, this enables a validator with `value_type = double` to work on all arithmetic values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. It needs to expose a `value_type` type member which identifies the type of variables the validator works on. Currently, the SeqAn3 validators either have value_type `double` or `std::string`. Since the validator works on every type that has a common reference type to `value_type`, it enables a validator with `value_type = double` to work on all arithmetic values.
```

> \attention In order to be chainable, the validators need to share a the same value_type!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\attention In order to be chainable, the validators need to share the same value_type!
```

2. It has to be a [functor](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/356950/what-are-c-functors-and-their-uses), which basically means it must provide `operator()`.

3. It has to have a member function `std::string get_help_page_message() const` that returns a string that can be displayed on the help page.

As an example, this custom validator works on all arithmetic values, checking whether they are NOT in the range [2,10]:

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/custom_validator.cpp validator

If your use case is a little more complicated, e.g. you want to make the range a parameter, here is the extended code that you can copy & paste and adjust to your needs:

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/custom_validator.cpp validator_complex

> Your validator can now be used like our built in ones and even changed to our custom ones:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your validator can now be used like our built in ones and even chained to our custom ones:
```

The seqan3::argument_parser::add_flag only allows boolean variables while seqan3::argument_parser::add_option and seqan3::argument_parser::add_positional_option allow **any type that is convertible from a std::string via std::from_chars** or a container of the former (see \ref tutorial_argument_parser_list_options). Besides accepting generic types, the parser will **automatically check if the given command line argument can be converted into the desired type** and if not throw a seqan3::type_conversion_failed exception.

So how does this look like? The following code snippet adds a positional option to `parser`.

\snippet doc/tutorial/argument_parser/small_snippets.cpp add_positional_option

Additionally to the variable that will store the value, you need to pass a description. This description will help users of your application to understand how the option is affecting your program.

> \note As the name suggest, positional options are identified by their position. In SeqAn3, the first `add_positional_option()` will be linked to the first command line argument that is neither an option-value pair nor a flag. So the order of initialising your parser determines the order of assigning command line arguments to the respective variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\note As the name suggests, positional options are identified by their position. In SeqAn3, the first `add_positional_option()` will be linked to the first command line argument that is neither an option-value pair nor a flag. So the order of initialising your parser determines the order of assigning command line arguments to the respective variables.
```

| **positional option**  | identify an argument by position (*value*)     | `file1.txt`             |

Have a look at the [POSIX conventions](https://www.math.uni-hamburg.de/doc/java/tutorial/essential/attributes/_posix.html) for command line arguments if you want a detailed description on the requirements for the above. (Note: in the linked article the following holds: value="argument", option="option", flag = "option that does not require arguments", positional option ="non-option").

## A continuous example
We will get to know the wide functionality of the argument parser by writing a little application and extending it step by step.  Let's say we have a tab separated file `data.tsv` with information on the Game of Thrones Seasons ([by Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Game_of_Thrones_episodes)):

\include doc/tutorial/argument_parser/data.tsv

We want to build an application that is able to read the file with or without a header line, select certain seasons and compute the average or median from the "Avg. U.S. viewers (millions)" of the selected seasons.

# The SeqAn3 argument parser class

> Before we add any of the options, flags and positional options we will take a look at the seqan3::argument_parser class itself. It is constructed by giving a program's name and passing the parameters `argc` and `argv` from main. Note that no command line arguments have been parsed so far, but we can now add more information to the parser. After adding all desired information, the parsing is triggered by calling the seqan3::argument_parser::parse member function. Since the function throws in case any errors occur, we need to wrap it into a try-catch block. Here is a first working example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we add any of the options, flags, and positional options, we will take a look at the seqan3::argument_parser class itself. It is constructed by giving a program's name and passing the parameters `argc` and `argv` from main. Note that no command line arguments have been parsed so far, but we can now add more information to the parser. After adding all desired information, the parsing is triggered by calling the seqan3::argument_parser::parse member function. Since the function throws in case any errors occur, we need to wrap it into a try-catch block. Here is a first working example:
```
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12967715/53964993-a7059380-40f0-11e9-8a01-4ef5999986c9.png" width="329" height="437">
